# AgriSense-AI 🌱

The Farmer's Assistant App is a smart companion designed for plant care and farming. This application leverages IBM's cutting-edge AI and cloud services to provide users with actionable insights about plant health, farming techniques, and crop care. It combines powerful vision and language models with session-based conversational capabilities to deliver context-aware and accurate responses.

### Features
- Detect diseases using IBM Watson's Language & Vision Models by just uploading images
-  Upload documents containing plant-related information (e.g., history, care), Ask questions about the document's content using IBM Watson's Large Language Models (LLM).
- Session-Based Conversations

- Maintains session history using IBM Cloudant, Automatically appends summaries of past interactions for context-aware responses, Converts model responses into audio using IBM Text-to-Speech service.
- Utilizes IBM's Granite model for text-based analysis, Leverages Meta Llama model for robust language processing.

### Tech Stack
Backend Framework: Flask

Database: IBM Cloudant

AI Models:

IBM Watson Language & Vision Models (LVM)

IBM Watson Large Language Models (LLM) (Granite & Meta Llama)


Text-to-Speech: IBM Text-to-Speech Service

### Requirements
Python 3.8+

IBM Cloud account (to set up Watson services and Cloudant)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:

   ``` bash
   https://github.com/Ayaan-tech/AgriSense-AI.git
   ```
   ``` bash
       cd IntelliBot
   ```

2. Install the dependencies:

    ```bash 
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. Create a .env file and add your API keys & URL, Refer to .env.example file.
  
4. Run the app:

     ```bash
        python app.py
      ```
  
The app will be available at 
   ```bash
      http://127.0.0.1:5000/
   ```
### Usage

1. Upload an image or document along with a query to start the interaction.


2. Ask follow-up questions without re-uploading the file.


3. Listen to audio responses generated by the app.











